📝 Proofread Transcript (Extras Discussion)
Here is the proofread and cleaned-up version of the discussion among the four participants:
Speaker 1: I think... I'm not... [Referring to the recording] I think I'm not representing... increase in truck accidents... Hold on, I can't hear you at all. Can we... Okay, please, can you come again?
Speaker 4: Yes, go ahead, now.
Speaker 1: I couldn't even hear you before because of the interference due to several mics that are unmuted. Okay. So, like I was saying, one of the major social effects that I think they forgot to mention is that quite recently, we've recorded, I think, a 100% increase in truck accidents, oil spillage, and fire from tankers in Ibeju-Lekki, I think, between last year and this year. I don't know if I'm correct.
Speaker 3: You are very correct. There has been an increase in that. We couldn't actually recall everything. I'm glad that you have reminded us. Even just recently, close to my daughter's naming ceremony, it was very horrific that we had a gas tanker that fell on the bridge. And I think that is as a result of the single-carriage bridge. So with this, the state government needs to be up and doing. The dualization of the Lekki-Epe Expressway down to Epe is not enough if the bridge is not being dualized. So it's going to be an accident zone for our people, and we don't want that to continue.
Speaker 1: So which of the bridge are you talking about?
Speaker 3: The Eleko bridge, to be specific, and all the bridges down to Epe. There are so many accidents since Dangote came as a result of the influx of traffic on that road. The larger area of that road is being expanded into a dual carriage, while the bridge that is connecting the dual carriage is just a single carriage. And imagine a well that is driving along the houses that are not... at times, all these truck drivers, they don't rest. So they drive overnight, they get tired, they doze off, and at the end of the day, you will just see a lot of crises that people will not even be able to go to their place of work for a day. Yes, the one that happened, the accident around Eleko, I can tell you, till around 8 p.m. in the night, the truck was yet to be evacuated. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Is there any other possible one to add to that, or another perspective that is coming? Do this one at a time.
Speaker 2: Thank you. These things have reminded me to just add this little thing. So we'll use this medium to call on the Lagos State Government to ensure they increase the numbers of the fire stations within the Ibeju-Lekki Express Road axes, because there are a lot of things that are happening. At the time of accident, majorly we do have tankers capsizing... I mean, sorry, having... and the tankers having been tumbling and all that.
So I could remember one vividly that happened at Eleko at the roundabout, Ibeju-Lekki axes, where it was a full loaded gas tanker. I couldn't remember the, what was it called, the capacity of that tanker, but I'm sure it really caused a lot of things that some people, the commuters, had to be, you know, frightened of their lives, and they had to be running helter-skelter due to the massive explosion. It didn't actually explode, but the gas had to gush out like the whole community is lit up with flames and, you know, highly combusted, fire energy that you won't come to, you know, lift up.
So I remember. And I think we had some information that some of the... I know, I'm very sure we have the Lagos State Firefighters, we have the Pinnacle Firefighters, we have the Dangote Firefighters-and let me say the firefighters in terms of, you know, Ibeju-Lekki as a whole. And I think we had the information that some of the firefighters... we now... we take... we find our accounts to be sure. I think Abraham can share more light on this. I don't know if it is Pinnacle or Dangote like that. They used to say they don't go outside Dangote to, you know, extinguish fire incidents. So which is very, very annoying, it's very, very frustrating to hear that kind of information. You are within our community, and your facility, and infrastructure, everything are there. So you know, life matters a lot. Life matters a lot.
So doing this, I want to call on the Lagos State Government to please increase the number of stations and the number of firefighter officers within the coastal and the express area. Thank you very much.
Speaker 3: To add to this information: there is a firefighting station that is currently ongoing at Epe Town at that entrance. There is a firefighting station that is being constructed and will be completed maybe middle of next year. I think it's in partnership with Lagos or the Lagos Lottery Board and the... So it's ongoing. So we just wish the state government would fast-track the completion of that place and equip it with a proper security, proper firefighting equipment.
And also to add to this, we had, during the time of I think, there was an Accident and Emergency Centre that was constructed at Eleko. But it's quite unfortunate that that has been turned into something else. What we have there is just... we have the illness and some other agencies using the office, in which what that place was meant for was to respond to accident and emergency, where it is properly equipped and furnished, that we have a lot of... and all these equipment that could ever quickly clear obstructions on our roads. But today what it's turned to is very, very bad and not encouraging.
Also, at FMC, there was an infrastructure that was put in by Custodian. The name of that company is Custodian, whatever. So, on the place about four or five months ago. But I can tell you today that that place is not functional. And I have my information that Custodian actually released that place to Lagos State Government, but Lagos State is yet to release it and hand it over to FMC. If you get to the Emergency Centre today, somebody that is having a little kidney issue could not be attended to. So they have to be transferred to Epe General Hospital. So all those things are frustrating. So government needs to do more.
Speaker 1: All right, thank you very much for... Okay, you want to... Is that Abraham?
Speaker 3: Thank you so much. So that was a good one. So, to let you know, the peaceful Ibeju-Lekki has now turned to that if you go out in the morning, the assurance that you will get to your house safely in the night is... is... is... is shaking. Just yesterday, between Dangote Refinery and Lagos, a trailer actually killed one guy and the trailer ran away. Something between 7 p.m. to 7:15 p.m. It was a 40-foot trailer due to the reckless driving and the speed. So all these things are there.
Just to let me go there, like he said, on the issue of fire. As a firefighter and a safety officer and a trainer, a specific evidence is a major concern. I don't want to dwell more about that. On our end, as Lagos fire service, we've always been attending to emergency. But I'm going to Dangote Refinery specifically, I will note: they haven't been doing that, but due to the outcry from the community, they have been coming up now, but it's limited-they are coming out to the host community alone.
So we believe that as part of their assistance, they should be saddled with responsibility, knowing fully that most of these dangers are coming from them. They should be able to be attending to emergency outside their company, as they have more than 50 fire trucks within their jurisdiction.
And one thing that I ought to... I ought to pinpoint is that before now, the level of the way of living of the people as a whole, in terms of accommodation and their lives. But now, due to the coming of the refinery and other companies, the house rent has now skyrocketed. Yet the staff, the indigenes working, the residents are collecting peanuts. So in terms of remuneration, job opportunities... Dangote needs to do more. The landlords believe that, where are you working? They don't even want to know where you are working. Now, you are working or not, they don't care. But now the prices have skyrocketed because of the citation of this school. And if care is not taken, the youth have been enduring. The youth have been crying in silence. A day will come that they will say enough is enough. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Alright, thank you very much. So, thank you so much. I was going to ask a question if you have any figures and you have an idea of if there are instances where... if there is a truck set ablaze, as in, impacted or killed people in the community, apart from the hit-and-run one that you have just mentioned. Have there been instances where it affected more than one life, buildings, and more? Have you recorded any incidents of where a tanker or a gas tanker or whatsoever form of fluid or energy it is carrying, that had an accident or affected or burnt down buildings within a community leading to loss of life?
Speaker 2: Yeah, I think I have recorded pictures and some videos. I don't actually have the video completely, but there are some videos and pictures and some little reports that I did personally. The one I specifically mentioned that happened at Eleko. Although there are no casualties, there are a lot of firefighters from different regions that actually, you know, come to, you know, extinguish the fire incident, even from somewhere, from Lagos State, which Abraham happens to be one of their safety officers and firefighter officers, and Pinnacle and all.
I think I have reports and some pictorial evidence and some videos where the tanker, you know, caught a place, but there are no casualties, as I mentioned. And Dangote... the compound which the tanker landed happened to surround it with waters due to the ongoing construction of Lagos to Calabar. They have blocked, you know, the flow of water and the canal in that axis. You know, the water is standard, and the water doesn't affect the building so much... short. Those are the little ones that I have in my own. I don't know if you are interested in having that, you know, easily for...
And mind you, that day, I remember vividly, the former local government chairman, the Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Chairman, in person of Engineer Sikiru, and some other, you know, who have responded, you know, immediately, he got the information, and he personally contacted me once, you know, I am at the scene, you know, to ask of the situation, and you know, from his own influence, he had been able to, you know, contact one fire station or the other to come to the aid of the community of Eleko people, and, you know, the other executive member, which they call, like the vice chairman, who also did that, and from his office, and, you know, from the LCDA. So we thanked them, and thank God we have people like them that, you know, still have the interests and the love of the residents of their local government. So I don't know if you have... if you need...
Speaker 1: By all means, I require as much information that can help us. I take it seriously.
Speaker 3: In addition to Eleko, we've had a series of incidents where the fall of a tanker has frustrated the activities of the commoner for a whole day. Yes, for a complete day. Apart from the incident, there has been one for the day, nobody can do any activities within their axis. And our record... A.M. in the middle of the night, and we got something after three, and people were moving their family and loved ones. Some were even naked. Due to the fact that it was an emergency, they were moving that night, rescued, and they ran kilometers just to go for their life. And it took us a whole day for us to ensure the fire... we started the cooling and the rest. But we haven't had a major incident of fire killing people due to a truck, but we have seen a lot of cases of hit-and-go incidents by trucks that do not wait. However, we cannot ascertain that it's Dangote Refinery, because if we are able to claim that, there might not be any evidence that, okay, it was actually Dangote's trailer.
Speaker 1: Yeah, all right, all right. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. I think we've gotten to a point of saturation at this time, and I appreciate each and every one of you. I'll keep in touch. You have my contact now. If you have any information you want to show me in confidence, please do so, and then we'll continue the conversation from there. Thank you so much for your insight and your contribution for making this possible. So I would say, in the absence of any other question, I would say this would be all of it for today. Thank you.
Speaker 2: Thank you so much for having us. Thank you for bringing reality, and sorry for it coming so late. It's really been a very epic task for me. It's up and down, but I'm glad that we were able to have this.
Would you like me to compile all three proofread transcripts into a single document, or is there another way I can help?