Proofread Transcript
Speaker 1: Okay, alright. So I just want to let you know, the call-this conversation-is being recorded for my use, just for me to be able to write out the report. Is that okay?
Speaker 2: No problem.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Alright. So we're working on the Dangote Refinery and its story on Ibeju-Lekki, and I want to know its impact on the society.
Impact on Job Opportunity and Economic Development
Speaker 1: So, as a youth leader, how do you see the Dangote Refinery impacting future job opportunities and economic development for young Nigerians? Thank you.
Speaker 2: Thank you very much for that question. Looking at Ibeju-Lekki, which is along the...
Speaker 1: Can you speak louder and clearer? I can't hear you.
Speaker 2: Okay, can you hear me now?
Speaker 1: Yes, better.
Speaker 2: It has contributed to employment in Ibeju-Lekki and beyond. Because, looking at this context, starting from the inception of, you know, bringing down the refinery to that area, right from what we call the Bale (local chief) being involved... The indigenes, all, for example, all about those in that field, we have a kind of, you know, job opportunities for people that are in that field. And ever since then, throughout the construction era, throughout the phase that we are in now-the production phase-the youths in the community and beyond are practically, you know, working in one place or another.
I would like to put things into two categories, okay? So, the Dangote Refinery has contributed to some youth of the community being engaged and some earning money during the construction time. That was very, very good and it contributed to our economic development for our youth. So, there are some, you know, job opportunities, as I said, and we were talking about the indigenous people being engaged. We are talking about the land clearing and the building of the site-that should be some kind of employment. Importantly, we have... And for now, that's what we are really contributing. We are still involved in that.
Speaker 1: So what exactly is the problem? What are the problems?
Speaker 2: Alright, we as an organization in Ibeju-Lekki... We believe it has its own structure and everybody knows that we have the chairman of the group, but youth like ours, we need to be engaged with our own community. That kind of engagement, which I know that it has to happen, but how the management goes to engage right within the locality in terms of some kind of employment opportunity-we want a lot of opportunity, not just the casual work of job opportunity. I think you can understand what I'm trying to say by then.
Speaker 1: Yeah. Thank you very much for that. I think I caught that.
Environmental Sustainability and Climate Change Concerns
Speaker 1: So what concerns do young people in the community have regarding the environmental sustainability and climate change in relation to a large-scale industrial project like Dangote in the environment?
Speaker 2: Well, it's an interesting question. So, you know, it goes back around 2010, you know, forward to around 2020. So, it made an impact on our own area, our coastline. The first line of our home is because water flows to the Atlantic, to the ocean. They used to take some fishes, and you are far from... But, you know, it's cheap and... So, fishermen are losing their programs. And for the Atlantic to... If you look at, you go to other areas... So there are other houses collapsing. You know, it's a lot of things. There are diseases that they... There are setbacks. So, there is that planning to reclaim the ocean.
Now, coming back to Ibeju-Lekki and the other areas, we want to be... So, there are activities that are going on. There are the farmers, they have the... So, there is what we use to sustain.
Speaker 1: So, in a nutshell, you're saying that the activities of the Dangote have impacted the livelihood of the community. To what extent can you-can you explain that? To what extent? Can you give me further details in short on that, just in brief? And I think I'll take the other interview maybe later, that's after him. So I want to take him one at a time, please. All right, thank you.
Speaker 2: Thank you. Let me say, restrictions. There are some restrictions. They are reducing productivity in terms of the traditional occupation that we use. Largely it is, you know, fishing. And there are some little loss of, let me say, jobs in terms of people that rely on, you know, farming, on trading, and all that. So, at a minimum, the other company that is more like about that. So that's what I can say for now.
Youth Empowerment and Skill Development
Speaker 1: Alright, thank you. So, how can the refinery contribute to youth empowerment and skill development in the energy sector?
Speaker 2: Well, they have a lot to do in that aspect. They have a lot to do. I know they are trying as a company, you know, they are trying to, you know, bring out their own, you know, by engaging youth and all that, but they still need to do more. And they are the actual stable people. They are actually, you know, having a good Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).
Because it is one thing to have a kind of administrative structure and another thing, the local structure. So you have a right of people, okay? So in that aspect, they have to come in in terms of... One, a couple of years now, over the years, all these in Ibeju-Lekki, and particularly, it is part of the local problem about enjoying energy without electricity. Then they took back... But now it is not like that, but let's do more than that. So we are improving in that aspect.
And again, there are some... We want the community to enjoy the dividends...
Speaker 1: When you said dividends, what do you mean by dividends? What are the expectations?
Speaker 2: I mean that the community residents and indigenes, you know, should be benefiting as part of the good things we are having in our community. So in terms of major needs, employment opportunity. And that employment opportunity, I think it has to be monitored so that it goes to the rightful people. Okay? Because we might hear that some employment went to, let me say, indigenes of Ibeju-Lekki. So the question is that does that employment opportunity really go to the residents, and the indigenes of that community or not? So they have to monitor that.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities
Speaker 1: Okay, so did you mention that they're doing some CSR? So what CSR activities have they done so far? Well, in the I mean, there are lots of ways. What have they done? I mean, what have they done? That's the question. What have they done?
Speaker 2: The one I can see, the one I can say, and which for me, as a person, was not properly done because there are some...
Speaker 1: What was it? What was it? Can you mention what it is before you make a comment on it?
Speaker 2: There was a time when they distributed food...
Speaker 1: What kind of food? What was given to them? Can you provide precise information on that?
Speaker 2: It was when Dangote was distributing bread across the communities, which I believe Dangote should do more. And we heard about-but me, in particular, I don't talk about other people-but for me, I have not confirmed that there were also provisions of other food items, which I myself do not confirm because I was busy there and I couldn't confirm that. But the one I can confirm that I've seen with my two eyes is when bread was being distributed.
Social Effects on the Local Community
Speaker 1: So my next two questions should be based on your experience. So in your experience, what are the social effects of the refinery on the local community, particularly on youth and on education, let's say?
Speaker 2: Well, in terms of... how would I put it? In terms of economic development, they are really contributing. And in terms of the increase in the population that has gone up and in terms of new business traffic, business traffic has also improved in the old communities. And aside from that, we have the negative... and the negative...
Speaker 1: So do you mean that, due to the population and the traffic of people and all that, there are sometimes that there are rapists in the community, which was not like that before?
Speaker 2: Which... One, so due to the fact that they believe in some what they call, some people that don't have work to do, that they are doing, you know, for show by the employer, so that they have group to do. So that's it.
Speaker 1: Alright, so you did mention that the traffic into the community has increased. Is it for the local sellers, retailers? Are they recording higher sales now compared to what it used to be, or it's just traffic going to Dangote Refinery?
Speaker 2: When I say traffic, I mean both goods and what's it called? Goods moving and people moving. You know, there is an increase in population. So it has increased greatly. And the one that is very close is the one of... that one is very...
Speaker 1: Alright. Thank you very much for that.
Role of Youth in Advocacy
Speaker 1: And my last question is: What role should your organization in Ibeju-Lekki play in monitoring and advocating for responsible industrial practice? What would you think the youth should play in monitoring and advocating for responsible industrial practice individually? What should be? Yeah... The youth are trying... I think the question is what role should... Don't comment on what they are doing. What role should?
Speaker 2: We encourage the community youth to do more in terms of their academic career, in terms of, you know, pursuing youth to further on the higher education and to... We also encourage youth to acquire more skills, like petrochemical skills and engineering skills, as long as it's necessary, you know, within. So we also advise to engage more with the political government, to people activity and engage more with civil actives...
Speaker 1: Thank you very much for your audience. Can you give me your first and last name again for your portfolio? Thank you so much, Mohammed. I appreciate your audience. And then I would move on to the next person.