📝 Proofread Transcript (Second Interview)
Interviewee: Comrade Lasisi Yusuf Olawale

Speaker 1: May I know your name and your office? What do you do?
Speaker 2: Well, I am Comrade Lasisi Yusuf Olawale, the Director of Culture and National Youth Council of Nigeria, Lagos State branch. Thank you.
Speaker 1: I'm also informed... I'm also... Thank you. Alright. So now I want to go into the second set of questions, and I would just appreciate if you can just answer as directly as possible. And please note that this conversation is being recorded for reference purposes. Alright.
Impact on Job Opportunities and Economic Development
Speaker 1: So as a youth leader, how do you see the Dangote Refinery impacting the future of job opportunities and economic development for the Nigerian youth?
Speaker 2: Thank you for the question. Looking at Ibeju-Lekki, what we were told is that the refinery will employ 70,000 Nigerians. Also, they would, you know, give 7,000 jobs to engineers. What is important now is this: We have 14 host communities. They are called 'host.' However, good post-community intentions tend to be limited to the community-that is their focus-to that locality.
However, the responsibility is not only for the community, but for the entire Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos at large, and Nigeria as a whole. So, I might not focus on only the community. Just like I said to the last person, the people from the top level, they want to win over the community. When they announce a job opportunity, they give it not to us. After all, it is not the indigenes that are bringing the goods. We are the place-it is our place. I hope you understand what I am trying to say.
Speaker 1: Yeah, I get that. Thank you very much for that. I appreciate that.
Speaker 1: So now you did mention 70,000 jobs to be created for Nigerians. Is there any clear indicator of how many percentages of that should go for the Ibeju-Lekki community, Ibeju-Lekki youth, and so on?
Speaker 2: This is a good question you are asking me. I cannot give you a specific, what is it called, percentage. There is... I can make a search for that, but I cannot give you a specific percentage. I would not be speaking out of turn.
Speaker 1: All right. Do you have a copy of the MOU?
Speaker 2: I have a copy of the MOU (Memorandum of Understanding), but the confidentiality is not something I can share without reason.
Speaker 1: Okay, thank you.
Speaker 2: I hope you have what I'm trying to say.
Speaker 1: I understand that. Alright.
Environmental Sustainability and Climate Change Concerns
Speaker 1: Yes, what do young people in Ibeju-Lekki and Nigeria have regarding the environmental sustainability and climate change in relation to the operations of the Dangote Refinery?
Speaker 2: Okay. I can tell you that the coming of the refinery has a huge impact on the people of Ibeju-Lekki. As in a particular community-for me to be specific-a community, but it's the lifestyle and the status of the indigenes. The inhabitants of Ibeju-Lekki have to be using most of the community... Just like my predecessor said, our occupation has been, used to be fishing. Many cannot go there. The dredging has actually sent those fishes away from one point to everywhere within the stream.
During the time I was one... I called and captured three-they were dying on top of the water due to the chemicals from these companies. I think that we were called to action, and they did not, but I knew something like that is having a great impact on the community. And let me mention that we have a major problem with the chemical discharge viability at the point they are now.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much for that. So I would like to ask, can you provide me with any photo of dead fishes, floating fishes?
Speaker 2: It is possible. After this conversation, we can share through my contact. In three days, I can contact somebody to get it.
Speaker 1: Alright, thank you very much.
Speaker 2: Let me be straight with you. We have youths that can do... You know what I'm trying to say?
Speaker 1: Yes. You know, we have that. Yes.
Speaker 2: And, whether we like it or not, it has an influence on terms of, where political economy... very well, you understand what I'm trying to say. The work in... So, sometimes all this information, it will be difficult to get. But as the youth, we want the best. We get all this out. Thank you very much.
Speaker 1: Their names should be confidential.
Speaker 2: Definitely, definitely. It will be. Yes, it's one of our ethics.
Youth Empowerment and Skill Development
Speaker 1: So how can the refinery contribute to youth empowerment and skill development?
Speaker 2: My best is they have been doing, but it's not enough. In terms of... my brother talked about... I am very familiar. They give scholarship to the host community. They cover secondary school students and achieve... But they only focus on. I believe this thing should be cut across, not limited to us alone. Because if an issue happens there, it will not only affect the host community. It is affecting Ibeju-Lekki as a whole. So I have a specific brief from beginning to the end. What they are doing is a scholarship of a hundred thousand... when the best... So numbers toward the... not in the community. They need to be given a... that are as a power. Because of the peaceful atmosphere we are enjoying because the youth of Ibeju-Lekki... I think that half of the... What is that?
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. I got that. I got that.
Social Effects on the Local Community
Speaker 1: So in your experience, what are the social effects of the refinery on the local community, particularly on youth and education? I understand that you've mentioned that they give scholarships and more, so that's on education, but on youth...
Speaker 2: Well, what I said, the flow is that scholarship is...
Speaker 1: Yeah. Oh, yeah, I get that right. So now we're looking at the question of what are the social effects of the refinery on the...
Speaker 2: The effects... They are bringing some youth, particularly within the host youth. They would train them for six months, give them a stipend, and after which, they place them in a department. Can you go with that?
Speaker 1: What? Thank you.
Speaker 2: So, like I said, there's a vocational training that is ongoing, but that is limited to the host community. They train youth within the host community for six months, after which they place them in specific departments within the refinery. So, in so doing, they have impacted the lives of some youth. However, this shouldn't be a one-sided something. It should not be limited to a specific level of community. It ought to be dealt with... it ought to cut across the entire Ibeju-Lekki as a whole. Also, the educational support I talked about. And number three, just like I said, employment opportunity. But that employment is unequal employment. It's unequal employment. So that's what I can say for now. Thank you.
Role of Youth Organizations in Advocacy
Speaker 1: And lastly, what role should the youth organizations, like the National Youth Council of Nigeria, and other youth organizations play in monitoring and advocating for a responsible industrial practice?
Speaker 2: A very good question. The youth organization... we've been playing our own role in ensuring that we've equipped our youth with adequate skills needed so that when the slot comes up, they'll be able to stand in the hole. A lot of seminars have been organized by the Youth Council, both in the particular area. A lot of mentorship platforms have been organized. We bring scholars, scholarship opportunities. We have used our umbrella to seek for scholarship opportunity.
But the problem is this: Before now, Ibeju-Lekki is said to be set back when it comes to education. One of the set-back local governments when it comes to education. But thank God for the Youth Council, who has been the kind of leadership we have, the political leadership we have in Ibeju-Lekki, who is educational-friendly, that they are giving the support. A lot of slots have been coming, but sadly, we might not see youth who actually fit in their goals due to qualification or what have you. And you know, when this thing comes up, and we don't have competent hands, so it's always the problem. But the point is, with the influence of the Youth Council, the qualifications are there. I will not back down. There is a need for us to continue sensitization, on training, on the schools at the...
Now all this thing is on the ground, then we are calling on them to release more slots and extend their employment and other opportunities to the entire youth of Ibeju-Lekki and carrying the Youth Council along in the employment opportunity. If you place this on the host community, the community doesn't really have data of the youth, their competency. The only organization that has it is the Youth Council, but all efforts for the Youth Council to actually meet with them has been what has been... So I think that is the area that the stakeholders can work on now. Social media and what have you. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much for your time. I appreciate it a lot and I really appreciate it. I would let you know when I'll follow up with the request I've made through my contact and also give you an update when the story is out. Okay, thank you. So may I know... Yeah, may I now go to the President? Yeah. Are you available? Are you there? Okay, so...
Would you like me to proofread the next interview or perhaps summarize the key points from this second interview?