📝 Proofread Transcript (Third Interview)
Here is the proofread and cleaned-up version of the third interview transcript:
Speaker 1: Oh, can you hear me now?
Speaker 2: Yes, I can hear you now, loud and clear.
Speaker 1: Alright, just to let you know, this conversation is being recorded for reference purposes and also for transcription purposes. So, may I introduce... Just wait a minute, please. Thank you. Alright, so this conversation has been recorded for documentation purposes and for reference reasons. So, can you introduce yourself, please?
Speaker 3: Thank you. My name is Comrade Ibrahim Ogunbanwo. I'm known as... I was a one-time Social Secretary, NYCN (National Youth Council of Nigeria) Ibeju-Lekki branch, a Coordinator of Coordinators, NYCN Ibeju-Lekki branch, and currently serving as the Treasurer, NYCN Lagos State Chapter. My experience cuts across the entire region of the division. I'm a civil servant, a youth advocate, a community advocate, and a socialist. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Alright. Thank you.
Impact on Job Opportunities and Economic Development
Speaker 1: So, as a youth leader, how do you see the Dangote Refinery and how is it impacting job opportunities and economic development?
Speaker 3: Oh, thank you so much for that wonderful question. I want to use this medium to appreciate my brother that has spoken earlier and go straight to the point. What we talk about the Dangote Refinery contributing to development changes, fine, it is actual development. But coming to the employment aspect of it, what Dangote is bringing, across Ibeju-Lekki as a person-not only Ibeju-Lekki, I will talk as a division as a whole-it's what I call underemployment, not employment.
But, there are so many contributing factors to this. There is what is called the betrayal of leadership when we have leaders who care about today and don't see beyond today. What are they negotiating with Dangote today? What are they discussing with Dangote Refinery or Dangote Group? Because most of them run to Dangote for employment slots, not for the benefit of the community, but for the benefit of themselves. Because we are aware of some of our leaders that are contracting all these companies that go into employment, or... I don't know, I'm trying to get what to call the names of all these companies that are employing on behalf of a particular company.
Thank you so much. Contractors that get employment, employ people for other companies. They are getting a very reasonable amount of money, and they are paying our people peanuts. And when employment opportunity calls, what are the kind of employment opportunities are we getting? No, we are far beyond being ordinary guards. We are far beyond being just a gardener in that system.
If we need to go to the table and discuss, it is very simple. I recall it five years back when as youth council in the Ibeju-Lekki division, we tried to enter into the Dangote Refinery to discuss some things that have to be beneficial to the entire youth of this community and even the entire community. That was when Dangote wanted to sponsor 3,000 youths on focusing on training, and they would be training them in South Africa. But very sad, we found out that less than 5% of indigenes of this Ibeju-Lekki division in total are actually on that list. You want to train them to be able to fit in, to work in your refinery and other companies like the fertilizer. Definitely, genuinely, it should be people that are from this community, at least...
Speaker 1: Is there any... I think we're losing... Can you repeat that? We lost you for a minute.
Speaker 3: Okay, so that employment that is supposed to be... there's supposed to be a reasonable percentage that will go for the people within the axis. So, we had to call ourselves together as youth. Then I was the Coordinator of Coordinators in Ibeju-Lekki division. So we approached, we sent our letter, and they were not ready to have any meeting with us. Then we sent a communication that Dangote should not try to embark on that training if we cannot be provided with a list of people that want to go for that training.
And I call that youth is also an enemy of the youth. Some of our youths are the ones that revealed our contacts, our details to the powers that be, and they began to threaten our parents. So that is by the way. So that was the first action we took.
Now, if a refinery is coming up and it is here, and for us to be a beneficiary in the development, there are things that are fundamental. We need to be intentional about what we do when it comes to development. We need to be intentional. Okay, in this community, in the next five years, in the next 10 years, we should have indigenes that can fit in in the professional aspects of the companies that we have. So, what is wrong in coming out with an educational system, a scholarship-a reasonable scholarship-just like one of my brothers said, what we have is just educational support that an individual can even finish.
Into a reasonable scholarship that, okay, we want to train hundreds of indigenes of reasonable numbers, some of them into maybe similar engineering, some of them into hazard control, some of them into fire-fighting, some of them into petrochemical. So, areas that are related to that company should be what this scholarship should be based on, and to encourage our science students.
Speaker 1: Alright, thank you very much.
Environmental Sustainability and Climate Change
Speaker 1: So in terms of environmental sustainability and climate change, what do you think is the impact of the Dangote Refinery?
Speaker 3: In fact, that... that... that is not good to write about. I can tell you that they have reversed the strategy or measures that have been put in place. What happened to them in Awoyaya is that there are so many other communities as a result of dredging activity of our coasts. This has affected the integrity of our soil, the strength, the firmness, in which some of the foundation... The soil is just spilling, and we've seen so many houses collapsing. And what are the... What is the compensation system? To me, I'm saying nothing out of it. It's not a real narrative that has come to commonplace, but our people also betrayed us, and I need to be very specific about that. Because when you don't understand the details about something, definitely you give room to your young people that are the ones understanding.
We shouldn't only think about money, money, money, money, money. All these our fathers, leaders, have collected. Are they still enjoying the money? The answer is no. All the vehicles they gave them, are they still in operation? The answer is no.
Alright. So the ecosystem... just like the question you asked one of them, in terms of the marine life and the like. In fact, I can tell you that every day gas flaring-just wasting the gas that could be used to generate electricity for entire Ibeju-Lekki. If you come here, you just see it's just being set on fire, just because of the claim that there is no storage facility to convert it into CNG or to convert it into cooking gas. No, as a nation, we need to have gone beyond this.
Speaker 1: Do you mean, are you saying that the refinery is flaring gas openly and that everyone can see? Do you have any evidence to support that?
Speaker 3: Alright, thank you.
Speaker 1: If you have a clip of that, I'd be happy to see it before we come down to take a photo of it.
Speaker 3: No problem. I will find a way to get that and send it across.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much for that.
Youth Empowerment and Skill Development
Speaker 1: So the next question I would like to ask is: how can the refinery contribute to youth empowerment and skill development in the energy sector?
Speaker 3: I feel there would be a very realistic vocational training. If we cannot count on the existing vocational training by the state government, definitely there is a need to organize a vocational training that will solve the problem. The immediate problem and the future problem that will now contribute to the economic development of that axis. People need to be trained on pipe bending. People need to be trained on, what do we call it, going down the sea to do what we call welding. And I think that's one of the major reasons why the goal of diving and fishery should come to a reality within a short span of time, where young people can be trained to be able to fit in in their axis. So it does not need for us to go to South Africa or other countries to go and train our youth to be able to work there.
For me, focusing on training is the way to go now, is the way to go. There are a lot of vocations that people can be trained on and equipped for them to survive along this axis. The base of livelihood of most Lagosians, I don't want to say Nigerians, is already on this axis. People need to be trained to be skilled in order to fit in into the job requirements in these areas. And that should lead the government to partner with Dangote Refinery and other necessary stakeholders to ensure that our technical, apologies, our vocational centers are viable to train people. We've had enough of all these sewing or trading in hair-making and all these, no, we should focus on what is in vogue, that in the next 10 years, 20 years, 50 years, if people have this training, they can be able to feed themselves, train others, and for them to also be independent.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much for that.
Social Effects on the Local Community
Speaker 1: So in your experience, what are the social effects of the refinery so far? Are you there? I said in your experience, what are the social effects of the refinery? Thank you.
Speaker 3: This is increasing every day. However, you know, all these truck drivers on their lives... most of them, they leave their family for months, for years, and as a man, some of them need to... it's their essential... I can tell you that they have nearly turned our society here into what we call "Ashawos" (a local term for sex workers). You see a lot of people traveling down from the East, traveling down from so many places to come and establish what we call... into the minds of our young girls that, oh, definitely I can just go out, sleep with one or two men in a day, and I can survive. I can take care of myself. So, the social effect should go beyond that. That is even the negative social effect. So we don't need that.
However, it has made people to see beyond what they were seeing before that. Oh, so this environment has been transformed from just being an ordinary mushroom or just being an ordinary tramp into an industrial place. I can see what I've been hearing that happened in Port Harcourt for decades that is now having been a... which has now changed the thought of so many of our youth. And that is why training them, purposeful training is now important, so that they will not be throwing the path of the negative effect of that social impact.
And also, it has also transformed into the economic development of this area, because before you know it, we just put one or two tables on the ground. It has... you make yourself wealthy because of what? The population of the area.
And also, it has another... contributes to the security threats, because so many people are coming from different areas that you don't know their background, you don't know their identity, you don't know where to trace them to. There is a need for proper security architectural measures in order to prevent future security threats. Because someone that is coming from a foreign place that you don't even know is coming around here, is here, he's begging... a lot of people sleeping inside the trailer. No, that is not really important. So, we need what we call a truck park. So, these are the details that people who are aware should join our... they are supposed to take in to look into. Before you get to the truck park there, you get your money. So, I don't know why maybe either the people that have the idea don't have money, or those that have the money don't have idea. Maybe that's what it is.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much for that insightful response. I really appreciate it. If I will have a conversation after this time for me to have a clarity about the prostitution, increasing act of prostitution and social life in that area, but when they end... let's just go to the end of this and what role do you think the youth organizations like yours, you know, should play in monitoring and advocating for responsible industrial practice?
Role of Youth Organizations in Advocacy
Speaker 3: Thank you so much. We need to advocate for youth leadership. When we have young people that are ready to serve their community genuinely, not for other purposes... the other proposed gain will also come when it's time.
So we need to continue to amplify our voice, focusing on number one, focus on education-and what kind of education-holistic education, not just on other education. And also, trying to ensure that our young people study. From their secondary school stage, there should be what we call career counseling. So we need to put this in place. There is one. We've done so many, and there is one that is also coming from our student body, which is a known association of students. So they are planning... I don't have a timeframe for this month, in which the students will be able to choose a path, a career path that can give them an opportunity to fit in into the employment opportunity that is within this axis.
Another thing is for us to continue to engage with necessary stakeholders, give them ideas, give them selling points of what it takes to employ young people in this 21st century. Job opportunity has now gone to your watch to study in the classroom. You need to be a technologically driven person, you need to be an IT person, you need to think of AI. So all these are what we need to engage our people for them to see the reason why they should do this or why they shouldn't do this.
Speaker 1: Wow. Thank you. Alright. Thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate each and every one of you for responding to my questions. I would follow up with you guys after this session, so I think that will be all. Do you have any questions for me, any concerns?
Would you like me to summarize the key points from this third interview, or do you have another request?