
1

Automatic Zoom
WR Grace as licensor for an IndiancompanyWR Grace will provide its Unipol processingtechnology to Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) for use in a450,000 tonne/y polypropylene manufacturingfacility in Rasayani, India. BPCL has announced itsintention to construct a $3.48 bn petrochemicalcomplex in Rasayani, 50 km from the Mumbai12 M tonnes/y refinery, which will supply the rawmaterial. The project will involve the replacement ofan oldfluidized catalytic cracking (FCC) unitproducing propylene and the construction of adownstream PP unit. BPCL will then build a steamcracker.Original Source: Chimie Pharma Hebdo, 22 JUL 2020(Website:http://www.industrie.com/chimie)ãETAI Information2019.NEW PLANTSChinese operator starts upworld’s largest single-trainmethanol plantNingxia Baofeng Energy Group Co Ltd (BaofengEnergy) has commissioned the world’s largestsingle-train methanol plant as part of its new600,000-tonnes/y coal-to-olefins (CTO) complex atNingdong Energy Chemical Base in Yinchuan City,Ningxia Province, China. Designed by andequipped with proprietary DAVY processtechnology and catalysts from Johnson Matthey,the plant uses a feedstock of coal- derivedsynthesis gas (syngas) to produce 2.2 M tonnes/yof stabilized methanol, which Baofeng Energy usesfor production of olefins in a downstream unit,Johnson Matthey said. Startup of the plant followsthe operator’s 2017 award to Johnson Matthey, thescope of which included delivery of licensing for themethanol synthesis plantflowsheet, associatedengineering, technical review, commissioningassistance, and catalyst supply. Johnson Mattheypreviously provided licensing and design for aprevious unit Baofeng Energy commissioned in2014, the service provider said. With the newmethanol plant now operating at full rates, BaofengEnergy’s Ningdong chemical complex is nowcapable of producing 4 M tonnes/y of methanol,1.2 M tonnes/y of olefins, 4 M tonnes/y of coke, and780,000 tonnes/y of speciality chemicals from coal-derived feedstock. With instrumentation installationassistance from Shanghai Chenzhu Instrument CoLtd (Chenzhu) Baofeng Energyfirst started up itsnew plant’s methanol synthesis tower-which wasdesigned by China Chengda Engineering Co Ltd(Chengda) using Johnson Matthey’sDAVYtechnology and manufactured by Dongfang BoilerCo Ltd-and associated 105,000-cu m/hr airseparation unit on 29 May 2020, according toseparate releases from Chenzhu and Chengda.Baofeng Energy-which scaled back methanolproduction capacity to 2.2 M tonnes/y from anoriginally planned 2.6 M tonnes/y in 2018- investedYuan 15.28 bn to complete both the new methanolplant and CTO complex, the latter of whichfirstentered production in Oct 2019, according to a 15Nov 2018, release from Baofeng Energy andreports from Chinese local media. In late 2019,Baofeng Energy announced the release of anenvironmental impact assessment for a project thatwould involve construction of a newly proposed500,000-tonnes/y CTO complex at Ningdong, whichwould also include a new 1.5-M tonnes/y methanolplant,accordingtoa3Dec2019,releasefromtheoperator.Original Source: PennWell Corporation, 2 JUL 2020(Website:http://www.ogj.com/index.html)ãPennwell Corporation2020.Johnson Matthey awarded 3000mtpd methanol technology contractfor Russia Amur Oblast facilityJohnson Matthey (JM), a global leader in sustainabletechnologies, is pleased to announce that itscombined reforming methanol technology has beenselected by JSC Technoleasing for the new AmurOblast facility, located in Skovorodino, Russia. JM willprovide a licence for the 3000 mtpd plant and willinclude their new Advanced Series Loop technology,which utilizes an innovative synthesis looparrangement together with existing reactor technologyto achieve a significant improvement in natural gasefficiency. The contract also includes the associatedengineering, proprietary equipment and catalystsupply. Pending afinal investment decision (FID) byTechnoleasing, this will be thefirst JM licensedmethanol plant in Russia using the combinedreforming and Advanced Series Loop technology. Itrepresents JM’s commitment to providing its worldclass expertise and sustainable technologies toRussia’s growing petrochemical industry.Original Source: Johnson Matthey, 17 JUL 2020 (Website:http://www.matthey.com)ãJohnson Matthey plc 2020.Grace doubles LUDOX colloidalsilica capacityW R Grace & Co has announced the commissioningof its new 8200 sq m colloidal silica facility at itsEuropeanflagship production and R&D complex inWorms, Germany. The factory expands the globalmanufacturing capacity of LUDOX, Grace’s keycolloidal silica product, by 100% and substantiallyimproves Grace’s responsiveness to clients inEurope, the Middle East and Africa, (EMEA) andAsia Pacific. This will allow the company to continueto meet expanding international demand in aspeciality silica segment. The new factory extendsGrace’s production centre in Worms by addingnearly 25 new high-tech manufacturing jobs bringingemployment at the facility to around 950. The newfactory also enables the company to further improveits wide range of products and will boost Worms asa cornerstone of services in its RefiningTechnologies, Materials Technologies and SpecialtyCatalysts operating segments.Original Source: Coatings Today, 10 MAY 2020 (Website:http://www.paint.org)ãAmerican Coatings Association 2020.Hengli starts up Stratco alkylationunit at its new refinery complex inChinaDuPont Clean Technologies announced the“successful”start- up and performance test of anew Stratco alkylation unit at HengliPetrochemical’srefinery complex in ChangxingIsland Harbor Industrial Zone, China. Licensed byDuPont, the 300,000 tonnes/y unit enables Henglito produce high-quality alkylate from a 100%isobutylene feed stream. It uses the latestinnovative patented XP2 technology by DuPont inthe Stratco Contactor reactor. The Stratco alkylationtechnology is a sulfuric acid, catalyzed process thatconverts low- value, straight-chain olefins into high-value, alkylate.Original Source: PetroChemical News, 29 JUL 2020 (Website:http://www.petrochemical-news.com)ãWilliam F. Bland Co. 2020.Dangote advances construction ofLekki integrated refining complexNigerian conglomerate Dangote Industries Ltd(Dangote Group) subsidiary Dangote Oil Refining Cois proceeding with installation of key equipment at itslong-planned 650,000-b/d grassroots integratedrefining and petrochemical complex now underconstruction in southwestern Nigeria’s Lekki FreeTrade Zone. Sulzer Chemtech Ltd-the sole supplier ofcolumn internals, packings, and trays for the project-has completed design and supply of internals for all ofthe refinery’s columns, which contractors are nowcurrently installing at the site under guidance ofSulzer’s engineers, the service supplier said on 6 Jul2020. As a result of multiple rounds of design checks,engineering studies, and discussions with technologylicensors, Sulzer Chemtech was able to redesign theinternals for what was to be the complex’s previouslyplanned 500,000-b/d refinery to suit its revised650,000-b/d capacity without expanding theequipment footprint. The plant will not only helpNigeria meet its own fuel demand and become self-sufficient, but will also add Nigeria to the list of topglobal exporters of gasoline, diesel, aviation jet fuel,as well as other petrochemicals and petroleum-basedproducts, such as polypropylene (PP), SulzerChemtech said. Now scheduled to be completed byend-2022, Dangote’s $12-bn Lekki integratedcomplex-which will become the world’s largest single-train refinery upon commissioning-will include the650,000-b/d crude distillation unit, a 3.6-M tonne/y PPplant, a 3-M tonnes/y urea plant, and gas processinginstallations to accommodate 3 bcfd of natural gas thatwill be transported through 1100 km of subsea pipelineto be built by Dangote Group. Sulzer Chemtech saidthe refinery will have various processing unitscontaining more than 65 columns and requiring morethan 15 static mixers. Major processing installationswill include a residuefluid catalytic cracker, mildhydrocracker, alkylation unit, naphtha hydrofining unit,as well as continuous catalytic reforming units forproduction of gasoline and diesel meeting Euro 5-quality standards and jet fuel adhering to internationalaviation specifications. The complex will be equippedto produce a combined 33 M tonnes/y of petroleumproducts, including gasoline, diesel, kerosine, aviationfuel, and other petrochemicals.Original Source: PennWell Corporation, 15 JUN 2020 (Website:http://www.ogj.com/index.html)ãPennwell Corporation 2020.KBR awarded contract for vinylacetate monomer catalyst byShenghong Refining, ChinaKBR has announced that it has been awarded acatalyst supply contract for a vinyl acetate monomer(VAM) project by Shenghong Refining Petrochemical(Lianyungang) Co Ltd, China. Under the terms of theagreement, KBR will provide proprietary catalyst forShenghong’s grassroot 300,000 tonnes/y VAM unit.The unit represents thefirst commercial VAMtechnology licence and engineering contract underan alliance agreement between KBR and ShowaDenko KK (SDK).Original Source: KBR Inc, 2020. Found on PRNewsWire 14 JUL2020 (Website:http://www.prnewswire.com).Orion Engineered Carbonscommissions new air emissionscontrols at US facilityTo comply with strengthened environmentalstandards, Orion Engineered Carbons SA hasfinished an upgrade of its emissions controls at itsfacility in Orange, TX, US. The upgrade has reducedthe facility’s emission permits for SO2and NOx by2300 tonnes/y of air pollutant emissions, accordingto the company. The facility now features thermaloxidizer that is more effective than the incineratorthat was formerly used to minimize the pollutant anda Selective Catalytic Reduction reactor to minimizethe emission of NOx. The project, which spannedfrom mid-2019, is now fully operational.Original Source: Coatings Today, 20 JUL 2020 (Website:http://www.paint.org)ãAmerican Coatings Association 2020.FOCUSONCATALYSTSSeptember 20205
